docs/open-edition/modules/getting-started-guide/pages/application-use-store.adoc, before:

= Use an application from the _Store_

The _Store_ is a portal to publish or download applications.
Neptune provides a collection of applications that can be downloaded by users.
For more information, see xref:cockpit-overview:store.adoc[Store].

== Prerequisites

* You have access to the _Store_.
* You have installed Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

. Open the *Cockpit*.
. Click *Development* > *Store*.
+
The Store opens in a new window.
+
image::cockpit-overview:appdesigner-store.png[width=800]

. A list with all available applications opens. You have the following options to structure the list.
.. Change *Display* mode.
List:: List all apps.
Cards:: Show the apps as cards.
.. Sort apps by category.
All:: Show all apps available in the store.
Featured:: Show all featured apps available in the store.
Trending:: Show apps that are most successful recently.
Recent:: Shows the most recently published apps.
//Input needed: What does "private" applications show?
Private:: (...)
. Click the application you want to install.
. Click *Download* to download the app.
+
image::store-download.png[width=800]

*Result*: You downloaded your application, and you can use it now.

There are three places your app might appear:

* Application list: *Run* > *Applications*
* API’s list: *Connectivity* > *API Designer*
* Themes list: *Development* > *Theme Designer*

== Related topics

* xref:cockpit-overview:appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance]

Commit message:

review Use an application building block from the Store

docs/open-edition/modules/getting-started-guide/pages/application-use-store.adoc, after:

= Use an application building block from the _Store_

The _Store_ is a portal to publish or download application building blocks.
Neptune provides a collection of application building blocks that can be downloaded by users.
For more information, see xref:cockpit-overview:store.adoc[Store].

== Prerequisites

* You have access to the _Store_.
* You have installed Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

. Open the *Cockpit*.
. Click *Development* > *Store*.
+
The Store opens in a new window.
+
image::cockpit-overview:appdesigner-store.png[width=800]

. A list with all available application building blocks opens. You have the following options to structure the list.
.. Change *Display* mode.
List:: List all application building blocks.
Cards:: Show the application building blocks as cards.
.. Sort application building blocks by category.
All:: Show all application building blocks available in the store.
Featured:: Show all featured application building blocks available in the store.
Trending:: Show application building blocks that are most successful recently.
Recent:: Shows the most recently published application building blocks.
//Input needed: What does "private" applications show?
Private:: Show all application building blocks that are uploaded by your user.
. Click the application building block you want to install.
. Click *Download* to download the application building block.
+
image::store-download.png[width=800]

*Result*: You downloaded your application building block, and you can use it now.

There are three places your application building block might appear:

* Application list: *Run* > *Applications*
* API’s list: *Connectivity* > *API Designer*
* Themes list: *Development* > *Theme Designer*

== Related topics

* xref:cockpit-overview:appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance]
