docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/application-use-store.adoc, before:

= Use an application from the _Store_

Neptune _Store_ is a portal to publish or download applications.
Neptune provides a collection of applications that can be downloaded by users.
For more information, see xref:cockpit-overview:store.adoc[Store].

== Prerequisites

* You have access to the _Store_.
* You have installed Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

. Open the *Cockpit*.
. Click *Development* > *Store*.
+
*Result* The Store opens in a new window.
. A list with all available applications opens. You have the following options to structure the list.
.. Change *Display* mode.
List:: List all apps.
Cards:: Show the apps as cards.
.. Sort apps by category.
All:: Show all apps available in the store.
Featured:: Show all featured apps available in the store.
Trending:: Show apps that are most successful recently.
Recent:: Shows the most recently published apps.
//todo Neptune: Input needed what "private" applications show.
//Neptune@Parson: Any app uploaded to the store from the users account that doesn't own the flag 'public' is shown there
Private:: (...)
. Click the application you want to install.
. Click *Download* to download the app.
+
image::store-download.png[width=800]

*Result*: You downloaded your application and can use it now.

There are three places your app might appear:

* Application list: *Run* > *Applications*
* API’s list: *Connectivity* > *API Designer*
* Themes list: *Development* > *Theme Designer*

Commit message:

integrated input from todos, removed resolved todos

docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/application-use-store.adoc, after:

= Use an application from the _Store_

Neptune _Store_ is a portal to publish or download applications.
Neptune provides a collection of applications that can be downloaded by users.
For more information, see xref:cockpit-overview:store.adoc[Store].

== Prerequisites

* You have access to the _Store_.
* You have installed Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

. Open the *Cockpit*.
. Click *Development* > *Store*.
+
*Result* The Store opens in a new window.
. A list with all available applications opens. You have the following options to structure the list.
.. Change *Display* mode.
List:: List all apps.
Cards:: Show the apps as cards.
.. Sort apps by category.
All:: Show all apps available in the store.
Featured:: Show all featured apps available in the store.
Trending:: Show apps that are most successful recently.
Recent:: Show the most recently published apps.
//todo Neptune: Input needed what "private" applications show.
//Neptune@Parson: Any app uploaded to the store from the users account that doesn't own the flag 'public' is shown there
Private:: Show applications uploaded from your user account that are not flagged `public`.
. Click the application you want to install.
. Click *Download* to download the app.
+
image::store-download.png[width=800]

*Result*: You downloaded your application and can use it now.

There are three places your app might appear:

* Application list: *Run* > *Applications*
* API’s list: *Connectivity* > *API Designer*
* Themes list: *Development* > *Theme Designer*
