docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/launchpad.adoc, before:

= Add a new launchpad

In this topic, you learn how to add a new launchpad.

== Prerequisites

* You have created at least one tile group in xref:tilegroup-add.adoc[].

== Procedure

. In the cockpit, go to *Administration* and click _Launchpad_.
+
*Result*: The list of existing launchpads open.
. Click *Add*.
+
*Result*: The settings of the launchpad open.

=== General tab
//Fabian@Helle: Same question here about "tab" in the title.
. In the *General* section, you define general information about your launchpad. *Name* refers to the name the launchpad artifact has in the system, while *Title* refers to the displayed name of the launchpad. A *Launchpad Application* can also be downloaded from the store, for example, `planet9_launchpad_standard`.
. In the *Blackout* section, you can enable messages and provide them to the user. Blackout messages are displayed on the launchpad when a chosen application cannot be reached.
. If you want only one app to be shown on your launchpad, you can choose this app in the *Single App Launchpad* section. All other apps and tiles that might have been selected will be hidden.
. In the *Login* section, you define methods of how users login to your launchpad. You can create login scenarios in the authentication tab of the _System Settings_.
. In the *UI5* section, you can choose the UI5 version your launchpad uses. You can also choose a UI5 theme.
. In the *Settings* section, you can change general settings regarding the behaviour of your launchpad.
. In the *Main Menu Display* section, you can choose whether the menu is displayed in the header.
. In the *Active Apps Display* section, you can change the way of how apps you are currently working with are displayed.
. In the *Translation* section, you can choose in which languages users can see title and subtitle of the launchpad.
. In the *External Users* section, you can specify whether and under what conditions external users can log in to your launchpad.

=== Layout tab
You can configure the layout of your launchpad. You can have more than one layout style.

. Click *Add* to add a new layout style to your launchpad.
. Click *Save* to see a live preview in the right pane.

=== PWA tab
You can specify that your launchpad should serve as a progressive web app (PWA).

You can define the layout and display mode of your PWA, set an autolock when the app is not used, and enable the user to insert a pin code to restrict access to the app.

=== Header tab
You can specifically describe your header with dedicated javascript code.

=== Tile group tab
In the *Tile group* tab, you add tile groups to your launchpad. The chosen hierarchy is reflected on the launchpad.

. Click *Add* to open the dialog with the available tile groups in the system.
. Click on a tile group.
. Click *Select*.

You can drag and drop tile groups to change the order in which they are displayed on the launchpad.

=== Enhancement tab
You can enable multiple *Enhancements* for your launchpad and adapt them with custom javascript code.

Click on an enhancement and toggle the *Activate* button to activate it.

=== Chatbot tab
You can enable a chatbot in your launchpad. This can either be a chatbot from IBM (IBM Watson Assistant) or SAP (SAP Conversational AI). You need to have a corresponding account to connect to the chatbot.


== Related topics
* xref:launchpad-concept.adoc[Launchpad]
* xref:system-settings.adoc[]
* xref:tile-groups.adoc[Tile Groups]
* xref:tiles.adoc[Tiles]

Commit message:

review on launchpad, moblie client, mobile debug, tile, tile group, tile blackout, translation

docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/launchpad.adoc, after:

= Add a new launchpad

In this topic, you learn how to add a new launchpad.

== Prerequisites

* You have created at least one tile group in xref:tilegroup-add.adoc[].

== Procedure

. In the Cockpit, go to *Administration* and click _Launchpad_.
+
*Result*: The table of existing launchpads open.
. Click *Add*.
+
*Result*: The settings of the launchpad open.
//see comment in other tasks

=== General tab
//Fabian@Helle: Same question here about "tab" in the title.
//see comment in mobile-client-add
. In the *General* section, you define general information about your launchpad.
*Name* refers to the name the launchpad artifact has in the system, while *Title* refers to the displayed name of the launchpad.
A *Launchpad Application* can also be downloaded from the store, for example, `planet9_launchpad_standard`.
. In the *Blackout* section, you can enable messages and provide them to the user.
Blackout messages are displayed on the launchpad when a chosen application cannot be reached.
. If you want only one app to be shown on your launchpad, you can choose this app in the *Single App Launchpad* section.
All other apps and tiles that might have been selected will be hidden.
. In the *Login* section, you define methods of how users login to your launchpad.
You can create login scenarios in the authentication tab of the _System Settings_.
. In the *UI5* section, you can choose the UI5 version your launchpad uses.
You can also choose a UI5 theme.
. In the *Settings* section, you can change general settings regarding the behaviour of your launchpad.
. In the *Main Menu Display* section, you can choose whether the menu is displayed in the header.
. In the *Active Apps Display* section, you can change the way of how apps you are currently working with are displayed.
. In the *Translation* section, you can choose in which languages users can see title and subtitle of the launchpad.
. In the *External Users* section, you can specify whether and under what conditions external users can log in to your launchpad.

=== Layout tab
You can configure the layout of your launchpad.
You can have more than one layout style.

. Click *Add* to add a new layout style to your launchpad.
. Click *Save* to see a live preview in the right pane.

=== PWA tab
You can specify that your launchpad should serve as a progressive web app (PWA).

You can define the layout and display mode of your PWA, set an autolock when the app is not used, and enable the user to insert a pin code to restrict access to the app.

=== Header tab
You can specifically describe your header with dedicated javascript code.

=== Tile group tab
In the *Tile group* tab, you add tile groups to your launchpad.
The chosen hierarchy is reflected on the launchpad.

. Click *Add* to open the dialog with the available tile groups in the system.
. Click on a tile group.
. Click *Select*.

You can drag and drop tile groups to change the order in which they are displayed on the launchpad.

=== Enhancement tab
You can enable multiple *Enhancements* for your launchpad and adapt them with custom javascript code.

Click on an enhancement and toggle the *Activate* button to activate it.

=== Chatbot tab
You can enable a chatbot in your launchpad.
This can either be a chatbot from IBM (IBM Watson Assistant) or SAP (SAP Conversational AI).
You need to have a corresponding account to connect to the chatbot.


== Related topics
* xref:launchpad-concept.adoc[Launchpad]
* xref:system-settings.adoc[]
* xref:tile-groups.adoc[Tile Groups]
* xref:tiles.adoc[Tiles]
