docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/pdf-designer-edit-template.adoc, before:

= Edit a PDF template

In this topic, you learn how to edit an existing PDF template.
You find an overview over all elements xref:pdf-designer-elements.adoc[here].

== Prerequisites
* You have xref:pdf-designer-create-template.adoc[created a PDF template].
* You have xref:pdf-designer-open-template.adoc[opened a PDF template].

== Procedure

[TIP]
====
Make sure your PDF template is in editing mode.
To put your PDF template in editing mode, click the *toggle to edit* icon.

image:pdf-designer-toggle-edit.png[width=300]
====

===  Add elements to your template
. Drag the element you want to add from the reusable components column to the column of your PDF template.
You can change the attributes of the element in the window on the right. You can find an overview of all elements xref:pdf-designer-elements.adoc[here].
//reusable components panel --> check terminology with other "interface at a glance" topics (for example, appdesigner)
//-> terminology meeting, we ask Hendrik...

. Click the *Save* icon.
+
image:pdf-designer-template-saveicon.png[width=400]

=== Remove elements from your template

. Right-click on the element you want to remove.
. Click *Delete*.
. Click the *Save* icon.

=== Disable elements
. Right-click on the element you want to disable.
. Click *Disable*.

=== Enable elements
. Right-click on the element you want to enable.
. Click *Enable*.

=== Preview your template

. Click the *Preview* Icon.
+
image:pdf-designer-preview.png[width=200]
. You can click the *Activate* icon to refresh the preview of your PDF template anytime.
+
image:pdf-designer-template-refreshicon.png[width=400]

//We need a section here about the component properties panel and how you can enter text etc. there

== Results
* You have edited a PDF template.

== Related topics
* xref:pdf-designer.adoc[PDF Designer]
* xref:pdf-designer-create-template.adoc[Create a new PDF template]
* xref:pdf-designer-open-template.adoc[Open a PDF template]

Commit message:

processing internal review 2/2; new UI terminology used.

docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/pdf-designer-edit-template.adoc, after:

= Edit a PDF template

In this topic, you learn how to edit an existing PDF template.
You find an overview over all elements xref:pdf-designer-elements.adoc[here].

== Prerequisites
* You have xref:pdf-designer-create-template.adoc[created a PDF template].
* You have xref:pdf-designer-open-template.adoc[opened a PDF template].

== Procedure

[TIP]
====
Make sure your PDF template is in editing mode.
To put your PDF template in editing mode, click the *toggle to edit* icon.

image:pdf-designer-toggle-edit.png[width=300]
====

===  Add elements to your template
. Drag the element you want to add from the *Component library* pane to the *Document tree* pane.
You can change the attributes of the element in the *Properties* pane on the right. You can find an overview of all elements xref:pdf-designer-elements.adoc[here].
//Terminologie anpassen

. Click the *Save* icon.
+
image:pdf-designer-template-saveicon.png[width=400]

=== Remove elements from your template

. Right-click on the element you want to remove.
. Click *Delete*.
. Click the *Save* icon.

=== Disable elements
. Right-click on the element you want to disable.
. Click *Disable*.

=== Enable elements
. Right-click on the element you want to enable.
. Click *Enable*.

=== Preview your template

. Click the *Preview* Icon.
+
image:pdf-designer-preview.png[width=200]
. You can click the *Activate* icon to refresh the preview of your PDF template anytime.
+
image:pdf-designer-template-refreshicon.png[width=400]

//We need a section here about the component properties panel and how you can enter text etc. there

== Results
* You have edited a PDF template.

== Related topics
* xref:pdf-designer.adoc[PDF Designer]
* xref:pdf-designer-create-template.adoc[Create a new PDF template]
* xref:pdf-designer-open-template.adoc[Open a PDF template]
