docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/table-definition-add-foreign-key.adoc, before:

= Add a foreign key to a database table

//@Fabian: step does not really belong to complex task. Like, it's not needed. I linked to complex task prereq, but I'm not sure where to put it in nav later. Open for ideas. :D

Intro

== Prerequisites

* You have xref:table-definition-configure.adoc[configured a table definition].
* You have xref:table-definition-add-properties.adoc[added properties to the table definition].

== Procedure

. In the Cockpit, go to Tools and click *Table Definition*.
. Open your database table.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab and, on the toolbar, click *Foreign Keys*.
+
*Result*: The *Foreign Keys* dialog opens.
. On the dialog toolbar, click *+ Add Foreign Key*.
+
*Result*: The *Table Definition* dialog opens.
. Click the table you want to take the keys from.
//@Fabian: clear?
+
*Result*: The *Foreign Keys* dialog reopens.
. From the dropdown menu on the toolbar, select the column from your current table that you want to bind the keys to.
. Click *+ Add Column*.
. In Referenced Columns, select the column from the other table you want to get the keys from.
. Click *Apply*.

== Result

added foreign key
see number of foreign key added in toolbar

Commit message:

indices and suis for tasks

docs/open-edition/modules/cockpit-overview/pages/table-definition-add-foreign-key.adoc, after:

= Add a foreign key to a database table

//@Fabian: step does not really belong to complex task, it's optional. I linked to complex task prereq and put next steps here, but I'm not sure where to put it in nav later. Open for ideas. :D
//So general question would be, where to optional tasks. Will put it on agenda.

Learn how to integrate a key to your database table from another database table.

You add foreign keys to link multiple database tables by using a shared key.

== Prerequisites

* You have xref:table-definition-configure.adoc[configured a table definition].
* You have xref:table-definition-add-properties.adoc[added properties to the table definition].

== Procedure

. In the Cockpit, go to Tools and click *Table Definition*.
. Open your database table.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab and, on the toolbar, click *Foreign Keys*.
//todo Helle: add icon when active, two keys
+
image:table-definition-foreign-key.png[width=800]
+
*Result*: The *Foreign Keys* dialog opens.
. On the dialog toolbar, click *+ Add Foreign Key*.
+
image:table-definition-foreign-key-add.png[width=600]
+
*Result*: The *Table Definition* dialog opens.
. Click the table you want to take the keys from.
//@Fabian: clear?
+
*Result*: The *Foreign Keys* dialog reopens.
. From the dropdown menu on the toolbar, select the column from your current table that you want to bind the keys to.
. Click *+ Add Column*.
+
image:table-definition-foreign-key-add-column.png[width=600]

. In Referenced Columns, select the column from the other table you want to get the keys from.
. Click *Apply*.

== Result

* You have added a foreign key to the database table.
* You can see the number of foreign keys added next to *Foreign Keys* on the table toolbar.

== Next steps
* xref:table-browser-add-data.adoc[]
