docs/open-edition/modules/ROOT/pages/app-from-scratch.adoc, before:

= Create an application from scratch

In this topic you learn how to create an application that displays data using a Rest API.

You can follow step-by-step to use a pre-made API or adjust the steps to use an API that you made yourself.

//Helle@Neptune: I used the API from Lloyd's e-Learning programme instead of the API from the original documentation. This is easier for user since Lloyd's API is available to them, meaning that they can decide whether to use their own or Lloyd's API. Providing an API for this guide also ensures that newbies can get starting without having to build an API first.

== Prerequisites

* You have installed the Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

//Helle@Helle: add to partials
[TIP]
====
You can save your new application any time in the process and return to it later.
To continue building your application, open it in the __App Designer__ and click *Toggle to edit mode* on the top menu.

image::appdesigner-top-menu-edit.png[width=400]
====

=== First configuration of your application
. Open the Cockpit of your Neptune DXP - Open Edition, and in  *Development*, click _App Designer_.
+
image::cockpit-development-appdesigner.png[width=800]
. In the _App Designer_, open the *Application* drop-down menu and click *Create*.
. In the *New App* window, enter a *Name* for your application.
. In *Type*, select *Application* and click *Save*.
+
*Result*: You see the main designer environment, now with an empty HTML document.
Here, you perform front-end coding.
. On the side menu, click the *Settings* icon.
+
image::appdesigner-side-menu-settings.png[width=400]
*Result*: The *Application Settings* window opens.

. In *General*, enter a *Description* for your application and a *Title*.
//Helle@Neptune: Where does this appear? Is it visible to the user of the application or the devs only?
. In *OpenUI5*, select an Open UI5 *Version*, *Theme*, and *Language* for your application.
//Uta: Link to documentation on UI5?
//Helle: couldn't find anything on that.
+
TIP: The preselected Belize theme gives you the most popular look and feel.
. On the top menu, click *Save*.
+
image::appdesigner-top-side-menu-save.png[width=400]

*Result*: You have done the first configuration of your application.

TIP: You create your new application in the _App Designer_.
To learn more about the panels and functionalities of the _App Designer_, go to xref:appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance].

=== Create general structure
In this step, you create a general structure for your application and add  a *Shell*, *App*, and other components.
The *Shell* provides functionality and allows for visual adaptation of your application.
The *App* provides a more detailed graphical user interface for your application.

*Shell* and *App* build the base of any application you create with the DXP - Open Edition.
//Helle@Neptune: assumption, please check.

//Helle@Helle add to partials
[NOTE]
====
The following steps use the component tree from the *Reusable component* panel to navigate to components.
Instead of using the component tree you can also search for the component in the search field above the *Reusable component* panel.

image::appdesigner-component-search2.png[width=400]
====

. On the side menu, click *Designer*.
. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *sap.m* > *Application*.
. Drag and drop the *Shell* component onto the *HTML5 Document* in the *Application component* panel.
. Drag and drop the *App* component onto the *Shell* component in the *Application component* panel.
. Drag and drop the *Page* component onto the *App* component in the *Application component* panel.
+
image::appdesigner-shell-app-page.png[width=800]
*Result*: You have created the general structure of your application.
Each component is automatically renamed to *oShell*, *oApp*, or *oPage*.
+
. Select the *oPage* component, and on the *UI object* panel, change the *Name* to "oPageStart".
. On the *Component properties* panel, scroll to the *title* attribute and enter "Start Page".
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.

+
image::appdesigner-top-side-menu-save-activate.png[width=400]
+

*Result*: You have created a general structure for your application.
You have created a shell, an app, and a page.

//Helle@Helle: add to partials

=== Preview your application
You can preview your application in the *Application preview* panel in the _App Designer_ or in a new browser tab.

* To preview the application in the *Application preview* panel, click *Run in Designer* and select *Run in Designer*.

+
image::appdasigner-run-preview.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: The *Application preview* panel shows the current version of your application.
+
* To preview the application in a new browser tab, click *Run* on the top menu.
+
image::appdesigner-top-menu-run.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: A new tab opens in your browser and shows the current version of your application.

=== Integrate data from an API

In this example, we use an API with equipment details.
We integrate the data in a table for an exemplary equipment overview.

. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *sap.m* > *Table Responsive* and drag and drop the *Table* component onto *oPageStart* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *UI object* panel, name your *Table* "oTableEquipment".
. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *Resources* and drag and drop the *RestAPI* component onto *Resources* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *UI object* panel, click the *Rest API* field to open the *Rest API* library.
. Search either for your API or *API 1equipment*.
. Click on the operation with the *GET* *Method*.
+
image::appdesigner-restapi-library-popup.png[width=800]
//Helle@Neptune: in my test runs the Operation field in the UI object panel was preselected when selecting the API. In the e-Learning, it needs to be set manually. Which one is the expected behaviour?
+
*Result*: You have integrated a table and a *Rest API*.
Now you bind the *Rest API* to the table to display data in your table.
+
. On the *UI object* panel, click the *API* tab and navigate to *Response* > *200*.
. Click into the field that matches the *Operation* of your API and select your table from the list.
In our example, it is "oTableEquipment".
. On the *Model* tab, click into the *setInitLoad* field and select *online* from the list.
+
image::appdesigner-componentproperties-restapi-model-online.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Application component* panel, select *oTableEquipment*.
. On the *UI object* panel, click into the *Model Source* field, and from the *Binding* pop-up window, select the property from your API.
In our example, it is "1equipment".
. Right-click *oTableEquipment*, and from the drop-down menu, select *Wizard* > *Insert Fields - Edit*.
. In the *Wizard* window, check all properties you want to display in the table and click *Create*.
+
image::appdesigner-table-sampleproperties.png[width=400]
+
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.

*Result*: For each property you selected, a column component is added to your *Table* component.
To see the changes, restart the preview as described in <<Preview your application>>.

=== Add a footer with a button

. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *sap.m* > *Application* and drag and drop the *Bar* component onto *oPageStart* in the *Application component* panel.
. From the pop-up menu that opens when you drop the component, select *Footer*.
+
image::appdesigner-bar-footer.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Reusable component panel*, open *sap.m* > *Application* and drag and drop the *BarContent* component onto *oBarFooter* in the *Application component* panel.
. From the pop-up menu that opens when you drop the component, select *Middle*.
. On the *Reusable component panel*, open *sap.m* > *Simple Controls* and drag and drop the *Button* component onto *Middle* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *Component properties* panel, open the *Properties* tab.
. In *text*, enter "Update" and in *type*, select *Emphasized* from the list.
+
*Result*: You have added a footer with a button to update the table.
Now you need to add functionality to the button.
+
. On the *Application component* panel, click *oRestAPI*.
. In the *Attributes* tab on the *Component properties* panel, click into the *setInitLoad* field in *Model* and click *Clear*.
//Helle@Neptune: why do you first set it to online? Why do you clear it now? What happens behind the scenes?
. On the *Application component* panel, click *oButton*.
. On the *Component properties* panel, open the *Events* tab and enter a name for the *press* event, for example "UpdatePress".
. Click the *document-text* icon next to the name.
+
image::appdesigner-componentproperties-document-text.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: On the *Application preview* panel, the JavaScript editor opens.
+
. In the JavaScript editor, right-click and select *Code Snippets*.
+
image::appdesigner-javascript-codesnippets.png[width=800]
+
. On the side menu of the *Code Snippets* window, open *API*, select *oRestAPI* and click *Copy*.
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.
. Run a preview in a new browser tab or in the _App Designer_ as described in <<Preview your application>>.
. In the preview, click *Update* to show data in your table.

== Result

You have created an application to display and update information about equipment:

* You have created an application with multiple components including a *Table* and a *Rest API*.
* You have integrated data from an API.
* You have created a button to update data in the table.

== Related topics
* xref::app-with-template.adoc[]
* xref::appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance]

Commit message:

app designer update, e.g. added ui5

docs/open-edition/modules/ROOT/pages/app-from-scratch.adoc, after:

= Create an application from scratch

In this topic you learn how to create an application that displays data using a Rest API.

You can follow step-by-step to use a pre-made API or adjust the steps to use an API that you made yourself.

//Helle@Neptune: I used the API from Lloyd's e-Learning programme instead of the API from the original documentation. This is easier for user since Lloyd's API is available to them, meaning that they can decide whether to use their own or Lloyd's API. Providing an API for this guide also ensures that newbies can get starting without having to build an API first.

== Prerequisites

* You have installed the Neptune DXP - Open Edition.
* You have the developer role assigned.

== Procedure

//Helle@Helle: add to partials
[TIP]
====
You can save your new application any time in the process and return to it later.
To continue building your application, open it in the __App Designer__ and click *Toggle to edit mode* on the top menu.

image::appdesigner-top-menu-edit.png[width=400]
====

=== First configuration of your application
. Open the Cockpit of your Neptune DXP - Open Edition, and in  *Development*, click _App Designer_.
+
image::cockpit-development-appdesigner.png[width=800]
. In the _App Designer_, open the *Application* drop-down menu and click *Create*.
. In the *New App* window, enter a *Name* for your application.
. In *Type*, select *Application* and click *Save*.
+
*Result*: You see the main designer environment, now with an empty HTML document.
Here, you perform front-end coding.
. On the side menu, click the *Settings* icon.
+
image::appdesigner-side-menu-settings.png[width=400]
*Result*: The *Application Settings* window opens.

. In *General*, enter a *Description* for your application and a *Title*.
//Helle@Neptune: Where does this appear? Is it visible to the user of the application or the devs only?
. In *OpenUI5*, select an Open UI5 *Version*, *Theme*, and *Language* for your application.
//Uta: Link to documentation on UI5?
//Helle: couldn't find anything on that.
+
TIP: The preselected Belize theme gives you the most popular look and feel.
. On the top menu, click *Save*.
+
image::appdesigner-top-side-menu-save.png[width=400]

*Result*: You have done the first configuration of your application.

TIP: You create your new application in the _App Designer_.
To learn more about the panels and functionalities of the _App Designer_, go to xref:cockpit-overview:appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance].

=== Create general structure
In this step, you create a general structure for your application and add  a *Shell*, *App*, and other components.
The *Shell* provides functionality and allows for visual adaptation of your application.
The *App* provides a more detailed graphical user interface for your application.

*Shell* and *App* build the base of any application you create with the DXP - Open Edition.
//Helle@Neptune: assumption, please check.

//Helle@Helle add to partials
[NOTE]
====
The following steps use the component tree from the *Reusable component* panel to navigate to components.
Instead of using the component tree you can also search for the component in the search field above the *Reusable component* panel.

image::appdesigner-component-search2.png[width=400]
====

. On the side menu, click *Designer*.
. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *OpenUI5* > *sap.m* > *Application*.
. Drag and drop the *Shell* component onto the *HTML5 Document* in the *Application component* panel.
. Drag and drop the *App* component onto the *Shell* component in the *Application component* panel.
. Drag and drop the *Page* component onto the *App* component in the *Application component* panel.
+
image::appdesigner-shell-app-page.png[width=800]
//Helle@Helle: redo, *OpenUI5* added
*Result*: You have created the general structure of your application.
Each component is automatically renamed to *oShell*, *oApp*, or *oPage*.
+
. Select the *oPage* component, and on the *UI object* panel, change the *Name* to "oPageStart".
. On the *Component properties* panel, scroll to the *title* attribute and enter "Start Page".
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.

+
image::appdesigner-top-side-menu-save-activate.png[width=400]
+

*Result*: You have created a general structure for your application.
You have created a shell, an app, and a page.

//Helle@Helle: add to partials

=== Preview your application
You can preview your application in the *Application preview* panel in the _App Designer_ or in a new browser tab.

* To preview the application in the *Application preview* panel, click *Run in Designer* and select *Run in Designer*.

+
image::appdasigner-run-preview.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: The *Application preview* panel shows the current version of your application.
+
* To preview the application in a new browser tab, click *Run* on the top menu.
+
image::appdesigner-top-menu-run.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: A new tab opens in your browser and shows the current version of your application.

=== Integrate data from an API

In this example, we use an API with equipment details.
We integrate the data in a table for an exemplary equipment overview.

. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *OpenUI5* > *sap.m* > *Table Responsive* and drag and drop the *Table* component onto *oPageStart* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *UI object* panel, name your *Table* "oTableEquipment".
. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *Resources* and drag and drop the *RestAPI* component onto *Resources* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *UI object* panel, click the *Rest API* field to open the *Rest API* library.
. Search either for your API or *API 1equipment*.
. Click on the operation with the *GET* *Method*.
+
image::appdesigner-restapi-library-popup.png[width=800]
//Helle@Neptune: in my test runs the Operation field in the UI object panel was preselected when selecting the API. In the e-Learning, it needs to be set manually. Which one is the expected behaviour?
+
*Result*: You have integrated a table and a *Rest API*.
Now you bind the *Rest API* to the table to display data in your table.
+
. On the *UI object* panel, click the *API* tab and navigate to *Response* > *200*.
. Click into the field that matches the *Operation* of your API and select your table from the list.
In our example, it is "oTableEquipment".
. On the *Model* tab, click into the *setInitLoad* field and select *online* from the list.
+
image::appdesigner-componentproperties-restapi-model-online.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Application component* panel, select *oTableEquipment*.
. On the *UI object* panel, click into the *Model Source* field, and from the *Binding* pop-up window, select the property from your API.
In our example, it is "1equipment".
. Right-click *oTableEquipment*, and from the drop-down menu, select *Wizard* > *Insert Fields - Edit*.
. In the *Wizard* window, check all properties you want to display in the table and click *Create*.
+
image::appdesigner-table-sampleproperties.png[width=400]
+
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.

*Result*: For each property you selected, a column component is added to your *Table* component.
To see the changes, restart the preview as described in <<Preview your application>>.

=== Add a footer with a button

. On the *Reusable component* panel, open *OpenUI5* > *sap.m* > *Application* and drag and drop the *Bar* component onto *oPageStart* in the *Application component* panel.
. From the pop-up menu that opens when you drop the component, select *Footer*.
+
image::appdesigner-bar-footer.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Reusable component panel*, open *OpenUI5* > *sap.m* > *Application* and drag and drop the *BarContent* component onto *oBarFooter* in the *Application component* panel.
. From the pop-up menu that opens when you drop the component, select *Middle*.
. On the *Reusable component panel*, open *OpenUI5* > *sap.m* > *Simple Controls* and drag and drop the *Button* component onto *Middle* in the *Application component* panel.
. On the *Component properties* panel, open the *Properties* tab.
. In *text*, enter "Update" and in *type*, select *Emphasized* from the list.
+
*Result*: You have added a footer with a button to update the table.
Now you need to add functionality to the button.
+
. On the *Application component* panel, click *oRestAPI*.
. In the *Attributes* tab on the *Component properties* panel, click into the *setInitLoad* field in *Model* and click *Clear*.
//Helle@Neptune: why do you first set it to online? Why do you clear it now? What happens behind the scenes?
. On the *Application component* panel, click *oButton*.
. On the *Component properties* panel, open the *Events* tab and enter a name for the *press* event, for example "UpdatePress".
. Click the *document-text* icon next to the name.
+
image::appdesigner-componentproperties-document-text.png[width=400]
+
*Result*: On the *Application preview* panel, the JavaScript editor opens.
+
. In the JavaScript editor, right-click and select *Code Snippets*.
+
image::appdesigner-javascript-codesnippets.png[width=800]
+
. On the side menu of the *Code Snippets* window, open *API*, select *oRestAPI* and click *Copy*.
. On the top menu, click *Save* and *Activate*.
. Run a preview in a new browser tab or in the _App Designer_ as described in <<Preview your application>>.
. In the preview, click *Update* to show data in your table.

== Result

You have created an application to display and update information about equipment:

* You have created an application with multiple components including a *Table* and a *Rest API*.
* You have integrated data from an API.
* You have created a button to update data in the table.

== Related topics
* xref::app-with-template.adoc[]
* xref:cockpit-overview:appdesigner-at-a-glance.adoc[_App Designer_ interface at a glance]
