docs/open-edition/modules/installation-guide/pages/aws-instance.adoc, before:

= Create a key pair for an instance on the AWS console

//TODO: Fabian: How do we call sections? "Topic" (like here), "Section", "Chapter"? Do we have a rule for that? If not, we need one.
In this topic, you create a key pair to launch an instance on the AWS console in later steps.

== Prerequisites

* You have an account at the AWS platform.

== Procedure

. Type the following URL: https://console.aws.amazon.com.
. Sign in to the AWS Console.
. On the top menu, open *Services*.
. Go to the *Compute* section and click *EC2*. A new window opens.
+
image::aws-console-ec2.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Resources* panel, click *Key pairs*.
+
image::aws-key-pairs.png[width=400]

. Click *Create key pair* to generate keys for the instance.
+
image::aws-key-pair-2.png[width=400]
+
. Enter a name for the key pair.
. Make sure that *RSA* is selected as the key pair type and *.ppk* as the private key file format.
//TODO: Helle@parson: both preselected by default.
//TODO: Fabian: Insert a screenshot here?
. Click *Create key pair*.

*Result*: The newly created key pair appears in the key pairs overview with the name, type, fingerprint, and ID.

== Results
You have created a key pair for an AWS instance.

== Related topics
* xref:installation-guide:aws-launch.adoc[Launch an instance on the AWS console]

Commit message:

updated terminology to Amazon EC2, new SUIs

docs/open-edition/modules/installation-guide/pages/aws-instance.adoc, after:

= Create a key pair for an instance on the Amazon EC2 console

//TODO: Fabian: How do we call sections? "Topic" (like here), "Section", "Chapter"? Do we have a rule for that? If not, we need one.
In this topic, you create a key pair to launch an instance on the Amazon EC2 console in later steps.

== Prerequisites

* You have an account at the Amazon EC2 platform.

== Procedure

. Type the following URL: https://console.aws.amazon.com.
. Sign in to the Amazon EC2 Console.
. On the top menu, open *Services*.
. Go to the *Compute* section and click *EC2*. A new window opens.
+
image::aws-console-ec2.png[width=400]
+
. On the *Resources* panel, click *Key pairs*.
+
image::aws-key-pairs.png[width=400]

. Click *Create key pair* to generate keys for the instance.
+
image::aws-key-pair-2.png[width=400]
+
. Enter a name for the key pair.
. Make sure that *RSA* is selected as the key pair type and *.ppk* as the private key file format.
//TODO: Helle@parson: both preselected by default.
//TODO: Fabian: Insert a screenshot here?
. Click *Create key pair*.

*Result*: The newly created key pair appears in the key pairs overview with the name, type, fingerprint, and ID.

== Results
You have created a key pair for an Amazon EC2 instance.

== Related topics
* xref:installation-guide:aws-launch.adoc[Launch an instance on the Amazon EC2 console]
